# Foam

## Getting Started

a few out-of-the-box settings that I'm not a huge fan of:
- default colorscheme (For now I've updated to solarized though I'm not sure I love that either)
    - particularly don't like the red cursor, though the rest of the colorscheme seems fine
- generally need to add/update keybindings
    - Specific updates can be added to [[todo]]
- The foam-tips pages is almost completely useless
- The idea of the [[inbox]] note seems to make sense, though without quick ways (shortcuts) to add items to it and move items around I'm not sure how practicall it is

To learn more about how to use **Foam**, read the [Recipes](https://foambubble.github.io/foam/recipes) bubbles of the Foam documentation workspace.

## Note on `[[wiki-links]]`

⚠️ Until [foambubble/foam#16](https://github.com/foambubble/foam/issues/16) is resolved, `[[wiki-links]]` links (like the links above) won't work in the GitHub Markdown preview (i.e. this Readme on github.com).

They should work as expected in VS Code, and in rendered GitHub Pages.

If GitHub preview (or general 100% support with all Markdown tools) is a requirement, for the time being you can use the standard `[description](page.md)` syntax.

## Foam Questions
 - It seems like I could end up having issues with notes that (I would want to) named the same. Is there a way around this? It seems like the best solution for now is to just use long/descriptive page names
- I'm stil not really entirely sure what a typical workflow would be/look like
- [x] how do you link to a note in another directory (i.e. daily notes)?
  - `[[journal/2020-11-17]]` -- nope
  - `[[journal\2020-11-17]]` -- nope (at least not completely)
    - seems to be followable from markdown preview, but follow definition shortcut creates a new file in root directory
  - `[[journal:2020-11-17]]` -- nope
  - [[2020-11-17]] -- this seems to work, though it doesn't seem to autocomplete, and I also think you have to wait for the link references to update
  - I'm assuming that standard markdown link syntax would work, but it's kind of a pain
- Not fully sure if tags work, testing here #todo

## Foam Inbox

- Here you can write disorganised notes to be categorised later
- Bullet points are useful, but it could be free form text as well
- Sometimes it's better to just get things off your mind quickly, rather than stop to think where it belongs
- But don't let this list get too long
- Move information to more specific documents and link to them.
  - This helps you navigate between documents quickly
  - For example, you can `Cmd`+`Click` this: [[todo]]
- Some notes don't end up making sense the next day
- That's ok, you can just delete them!
  - You can always find them in your git history, if you really need it!

## Todo Examples

- [x] This is an example of a todo list item that's complete
- [ ] This one is not completed yet
- [x] You can mark it completed by pressing `Option`+`C` (or `Alt`+`C`) when your cursor is on this line
  - [ ] You can also select multiple lines and mark them all at once!
- [ ] When you press enter at the end of a line, it adds a new todo item on the next line

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[todo]: todo "Todo"
[inbox]: inbox "Inbox"
[2020-11-17]: journal\2020-11-17 "2020-11-17"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"