# Using Foam To Manage Zettelkasten

## Managing My 'Inbox' & Becoming more selective

(As of 11/25/2020) I haven't really adopted the practice of taking notes outside of my knowledge-map first and then creating a single note for each individual thought/concept -- I think this is at least partly because the articles I've read on the subject suggest taking your original notes in a physical notebook yet (with the exception of when reading a physical book), I don't think that really fits my typical workflow. This is why I created an inbox directory, so I could have various inbox files for different subjects, essentially allowing me to use the inbox directory as my intermediate notes.

The reason I created a directory for inbox/buffer notes (instead of just putting all intermediate notes/thoughts in 1 inbox note is that it seemed like that 1 note would quickly get crowded/disorganized). Thinking about it at the moment, it's occuring to me that may be part of the point to the inbox, that you have to finish processing notes/ideas more often (i.e. add them to your zettelkasten) so inbox becoming crowded would be a sign that you should stop adding stuff to it until you've processed what's already there

I think I struggle with the above concept/idea because I've typically jumped around a lot, reading on the surface level of a lot of different topics, but never actually learning most of them. Essentially this idea is new/foreign to me and will likely take time to get used to. I think I've tended to avoid the steps of actually using information and integrating it into my knowledge precisely because these steps do present some amount of a challenge every time. I believe I've done this not necessarily because I don't like to be challenged, but because I've felt the need to be more productive, which has lead to me spending more time on things like collecting sources of information or reading only at a surface level. I think setting aside a certain number of hours each week for actual knowledge-based or deep work would certainly help (provided I spend the rest of my time outside of those hours actually relaxing knowing that I've been productive for a planned amount of time).

The other side of my issue of avoiding the challenge of using/integrating knowledge is that I've definitely fallen into the collector's falacy. There is an (almost) infinite amount of information out there (particularly on the internet), and after reading through an article (if it's relatively short), instead of taking notes, I'll bookmark it as 'useful' for later. This most often results in me never looking at the page again. From this point of view, on top of going through my inbox more often (or at all for that matter), I also need to be more selective in what I add to my inbox. I've definitely gotten into the habit of spending all of my time reading through articles and bookmarking anything that seemed remotely interesting/useful. I need to get better at the techniques to read more efficiently (most notably skimming through an article first, before committing to fully read it).

I suspect at first, even skimming through articles I'll be tempted to add more things to my inbox than I can process in a reasonable amount of time. This shift towards identifying information that is actually useful and/or interesting, and taking the time to integrate it into my knowledge map (relatively soon after discovering it) is defintely something I can see myself struggling with.

I just noticed that when I created this note (ctrl-shift-p -> new note) while being focused on inbox.md, it created the note in the inbox directory, which isn't really what I would have wanted or expected.
